RHDEVDOCS-3972 Add content from "JNKS-289: Relocation of OpenShift Jenkins Images and what it means for you" into our docs (#47660)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/customizing-the-jenkins-image-stream-tag.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE

[id="customizing-the-jenkins-image-stream-tag_{context}"]
= Customizing the Jenkins image stream tag

> To control how the Jenkins image is upgraded, you can override the default upgrade behavior by setting the image stream tag value.

Author: See updated version in PR.

> The default upgrade behavior is determined by the `"name": "scheduled-upgrade-redeploy"` value in the `jenkins-rhel.json` image stream file. This image stream tag value automatically redeploys the latest version of the Jenkins image when it is released.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The default upgrade behavior is the behavior that existed when the Jenkins image was part of the instal payload.  The image stream tag names "2" and "ocp-upgrade-redeploy" in the `jenkins-rhel.json` image stream file employ sha specific image references.  Thus, when those tags are updated with a new sha, the {product-title} image change controller will automatically redeploy the Jenkins deployment config from the associated templates (like `jenkins-ephermeral.json` or `jenkins-persistent.json`).
```

Author: Thanks. Updated.

To override that default value, you change the value of the  `JENKINS_IMAGE_STREAM_TAG` in the `jenkins-ephemeral.json` Jenkins template. For example, you replace the `2` in `"value": "jenkins:2"` with one of the following the image stream tags:

> * `ocp-upgrade-redeploy` updates your Jenkins image when you upgrade {product-title}, you use this image stream tag in your Jenkins deployment configuration.

Author: Updated. Thanks.

> To override that default value, you change the value of the  `JENKINS_IMAGE_STREAM_TAG` in the `jenkins-ephemeral.json` Jenkins template. For example, you replace the `2` in `"value": "jenkins:2"` with one of the following image stream tags:

Author: See update.

> * `user-maintained-upgrade-redeploy` requires you to manually redeploy Jenkins after you upgrade {product-title}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `user-maintained-upgrade-redeploy` requires you to manually redeploy, by running `oc import-image` per the instructions at <add link>, your Jenkins instance.
```

Author: Updated this by adding the full command. Unfortunately, we can't use cross-reference links in our doc modules, so I can put a simple link to the procedure here.

> * `scheduled-upgrade-redeploy`, the default value, automatically redeploys the latest version of the Jenkins image when it is released.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `scheduled-upgrade-redeploy`, employs the scheduled import policy described at https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.10/openshift_images/managing_images/tagging-images.html#images-add-tags-to-imagestreams_tagging-images, and periodically checks for changes in the given image:tag combination.  If it has been updated, the image is pulled and the image change controller redeploys your jenkins deployment configs provisioned from the templates.
```

Author: Updated. Thanks.

:_content-type: PROCEDURE

[id="customizing-the-jenkins-image-stream-tag_{context}"]
= Customizing the Jenkins image stream tag

> To control how the Jenkins image is upgraded, you can override the default upgrade behavior by setting the image stream tag value that your Jenkins deployment configurations use.

Author: In this case, `you can` underlines the optional nature of this task.

> To control how the Jenkins image is upgraded, you can override the default upgrade behavior by setting the image stream tag value that your Jenkins deployment configurations use.

Author: I have restructured the sentence to emphasize the conditional opening and removed "can" from this phrase.

> To control how the Jenkins image is upgraded, you can override the default upgrade behavior by setting the image stream tag value that your Jenkins deployment configurations use.

Author: For the abstract, I use a descriptive rather than imperative phrase. In other words, I follow this template:
```
To <summary of task outcome or benefit>, you <summary of action> by using <name of feature>.
```

> The default upgrade behavior is the behavior that existed when the Jenkins image was part of the install payload. The image stream tag names, `2` and `ocp-upgrade-redeploy`, in the `jenkins-rhel.json` image stream file use SHA-specific image references. Therefore, when those tags are updated with a new SHA, the {product-title} image change controller automatically redeploys the Jenkins deployment configuration from the associated templates, such as `jenkins-ephermeral.json` or `jenkins-persistent.json`.

Reviewer 2: there is a typo here with `jenkins-ephermeral.json` instead of `jenkins-ephemeral.json`

Author: Updated. Thanks.

> For new deployments, to override that default value, you change the value of the  `JENKINS_IMAGE_STREAM_TAG` in the `jenkins-ephemeral.json` Jenkins template. For example, you replace the `2` in `"value": "jenkins:2"` with one of the following image stream tags:

Author: Updated. Thanks.

> For new deployments, to override that default value, you change the value of the  `JENKINS_IMAGE_STREAM_TAG` in the `jenkins-ephemeral.json` Jenkins template. For example, you replace the `2` in `"value": "jenkins:2"` with one of the following image stream tags:

Reviewer 2: nit: should we use impersonal phrasing? (passive form, I forgot if this is the style standard or not)

Author: Red Hat prefers second person (you) and active voice.

> * `ocp-upgrade-redeploy`, the default value, updates your Jenkins image when you upgrade {product-title}.

Author: I prefer short bullet lists like you suggest. However, these explanations are necessary for users to understand and make the correct choices.

* `user-maintained-upgrade-redeploy` requires you to manually redeploy Jenkins after you upgrade {product-title} by running `$ oc import-image jenkins:user-maintained-upgrade-redeploy -n openshift`.
* `scheduled-upgrade-redeploy` periodically checks the given `<image>:<tag>` combination for changes and upgrades the image when it changes. The image change controller pulls the changed image and redeploys the Jenkins deployment configuration provisioned by the templates. For more information about this scheduled import policy, see the "Adding tags to image streams" in the following "Additional resources."

[NOTE]
====
For existing deployments, to override the current upgrade value, you change the values of the environment variables that correspond to those template parameters.
====

.Prerequisites

> * OpenShift Jenkins is deployed on {product-title} 4.11.

Author: Updated. Thanks.

* You know the namespace where OpenShift Jenkins is deployed.

.Procedure

> * To set the image stream tag value, run the following command in the namespace that contains your `jenkins` deployment configuration.

Author: Updated. Thanks.

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc patch dc jenkins -p '{"spec":{"triggers":[{"type":"ImageChange","imageChangeParams":{"automatic":true,"containerNames":["jenkins"],"from":{"kind":"ImageStreamTag","namespace":"openshift","name":"jenkins:<image_stream_tag>"}}}]}}'
----
+

> Replace `<image_stream_tag>` with the image stream tag you prefer.

Author: Updated, thanks.

[NOTE]
====

> Alternatively, you can run `$ oc edit dc/jenkins -n <namespace>` and edit the line, `value: 'jenkins:2'` to use the image stream tag you prefer.

Author: Thanks, I've updated this to reflect our doc guidelines for "[Declarative config examples](https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/blob/main/contributing_to_docs/doc_guidelines.adoc#declarative-config-examples)".
